.nh
.TH "GH-DISCUSSION-COMMENT" "1" "Jul 2026" "GitHub CLI 2.96.0" "GitHub CLI manual"

.SH NAME
gh-discussion-comment - Add, edit, or delete a comment or a reply on a discussion (preview)


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBgh discussion comment {<number> | <discussion-url> | <comment-id> | <comment-url>} [flags]\fR


.SH DESCRIPTION
Manage comments or replies on a GitHub discussion.

.PP
The positional argument can be a discussion number or URL (to add a new
top-level comment), or a comment node ID or comment URL (to reply, edit,
or delete that comment).

.PP
When the argument is a discussion number or URL, the default action is to
add a new top-level comment. Likewise, if the argument is a comment URL or ID
the default action is to add a reply.

.PP
Use \fB--edit\fR to update the comment/reply body, or \fB--delete\fR to remove it.

.PP
The body can be supplied via \fB--body\fR, \fB--body-file\fR, or interactively
through an editor.


.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-b\fR, \fB--body\fR \fB<string>\fR
Comment body text

.TP
\fB-F\fR, \fB--body-file\fR \fB<string>\fR
Read body text from file (use "-" to read from standard input)

.TP
\fB--delete\fR
Delete the specified comment

.TP
\fB--edit\fR
Edit the specified comment

.TP
\fB-R\fR, \fB--repo\fR \fB<[HOST/]OWNER/REPO>\fR
Select another repository using the [HOST/]OWNER/REPO format

.TP
\fB--yes\fR
Skip the delete confirmation prompt


.SH EXIT CODES
0: Successful execution

.PP
1: Error

.PP
2: Command canceled

.PP
4: Authentication required

.PP
NOTE: Specific commands may have additional exit codes. Refer to the command's help for more information.


.SH EXAMPLE
.EX
# Add a top-level comment to discussion #123
$ gh discussion comment 123 --body 'Thanks'

# Reply to a comment using its URL
$ gh discussion comment 'https://github.com/OWNER/REPO/discussions/123#discussioncomment-456' --body 'Thanks'

# Reply to a comment using its node ID
$ gh discussion comment DC_abc123 --body 'Thanks'

# Edit a comment/reply
$ gh discussion comment 'https://github.com/OWNER/REPO/discussions/123#discussioncomment-456' --edit --body 'Thanks'

# Delete a comment/reply
$ gh discussion comment 'https://github.com/OWNER/REPO/discussions/123#discussioncomment-456' --delete

# Delete a comment/reply without confirmation prompt
$ gh discussion comment 'https://github.com/OWNER/REPO/discussions/123#discussioncomment-456' --delete --yes

.EE


.SH SEE ALSO
\fBgh-discussion(1)\fR
