.nh
.TH "GH-ISSUE-CREATE" "1" "Jul 2026" "GitHub CLI 2.96.0" "GitHub CLI manual"

.SH NAME
gh-issue-create - Create a new issue


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBgh issue create [flags]\fR


.SH DESCRIPTION
Create an issue on GitHub.

.PP
Adding an issue to projects requires authorization with the \fBproject\fR scope.
To authorize, run \fBgh auth refresh -s project\fR\&.

.PP
The \fB--assignee\fR flag supports the following special values:
- \fB@me\fR: assign yourself
- \fB@copilot\fR: assign Copilot (not supported on GitHub Enterprise Server)


.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-a\fR, \fB--assignee\fR \fB<login>\fR
Assign people by their login. Use "@me" to self-assign.

.TP
\fB--blocked-by\fR \fB<numbers>\fR
Mark the new issue as blocked by these issue numbers or URLs

.TP
\fB--blocking\fR \fB<numbers>\fR
Mark the new issue as blocking these issue numbers or URLs

.TP
\fB-b\fR, \fB--body\fR \fB<string>\fR
Supply a body. Will prompt for one otherwise.

.TP
\fB-F\fR, \fB--body-file\fR \fB<file>\fR
Read body text from file (use "-" to read from standard input)

.TP
\fB-e\fR, \fB--editor\fR
Skip prompts and open the text editor to write the title and body in. The first line is the title and the remaining text is the body.

.TP
\fB-l\fR, \fB--label\fR \fB<name>\fR
Add labels by name

.TP
\fB-m\fR, \fB--milestone\fR \fB<name>\fR
Add the issue to a milestone by name

.TP
\fB--parent\fR \fB<number>\fR
Add the new issue as a sub-issue of the specified parent number or URL

.TP
\fB-p\fR, \fB--project\fR \fB<title>\fR
Add the issue to projects by title

.TP
\fB--recover\fR \fB<string>\fR
Recover input from a failed run of create

.TP
\fB-T\fR, \fB--template\fR \fB<name>\fR
Template name to use as starting body text

.TP
\fB-t\fR, \fB--title\fR \fB<string>\fR
Supply a title. Will prompt for one otherwise.

.TP
\fB--type\fR \fB<name>\fR
Set the issue type by name

.TP
\fB-w\fR, \fB--web\fR
Open the browser to create an issue


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
.TP
\fB-R\fR, \fB--repo\fR \fB<[HOST/]OWNER/REPO>\fR
Select another repository using the [HOST/]OWNER/REPO format


.SH ALIASES
gh issue new


.SH EXIT CODES
0: Successful execution

.PP
1: Error

.PP
2: Command canceled

.PP
4: Authentication required

.PP
NOTE: Specific commands may have additional exit codes. Refer to the command's help for more information.


.SH EXAMPLE
.EX
$ gh issue create --title "I found a bug" --body "Nothing works"
$ gh issue create --label "bug,help wanted"
$ gh issue create --label bug --label "help wanted"
$ gh issue create --assignee monalisa,hubot
$ gh issue create --assignee "@me"
$ gh issue create --assignee "@copilot"
$ gh issue create --project "Roadmap"
$ gh issue create --template "Bug Report"
$ gh issue create --type Bug
$ gh issue create --parent 100
$ gh issue create --parent https://github.com/cli/go-gh/issues/42
$ gh issue create --blocked-by 200,201 --blocking 300

.EE


.SH SEE ALSO
\fBgh-issue(1)\fR
